/proc is the file system which is used by ps to get the process related details...

By listing the proper directory like structure, we can easily get the details what we wanted..

Through proc interface, we can communicate with kernel...

With /proc/<pid>/status, we can easily read and parse the content regarding the process..

In stat, there are 5 states. They are 
1. R -> Running
2. S -> Sleeping
3. D -> Uninterruptible sleep
4. Z -> Zombie
5. T -> Terminated or Stopped

Now, The main difference between D and S are, D is the sleep which can't be interrupted by the signals or interrupts like SIGKILL, but S can be killed or interrupted. 

Eg: scanf would be in S, just waiting for the input, nothing else, so, we can easily kill it by Ctrl + C, nothing much. For a disk reading operation, if the kernel is waiting for the disk reading to occur, the process will enter into the D state, as, killing or interrupting at middle won't be making the process enter into the safe state..

The Zombie process is a process, where, the process exits, but the entry is still in the process table, as the parent still didn't call wait(), as wait() is the system call with which, the parent process knows the info that, whether the child process is successful or not. After the parent process calls wait(), the kernel provides the info about that and deletes the entry of the process in the Process table. 

How can we delete the zombie process?
1. We can make the parent process call wait(), with which, the entry disappears.
2. The parent process can be deleted, so that, the zombie process is mapped to the init process as child, then the init calls the wait() method to delete the entries of the child process.

The main learning here is, ps is the tool that parses the content in the proc filesystem.

In comm file in the /proc, the name of the process is there.
In the cmdline file, the command is there..

There are two types of error codes or signals in filestream. They are 
1. Failbit
2. Badbit


Failbit - Operation is failed, but the stream is usable. 
Eg: For cin>>x, if someone enters characters, then extracting integer fails, so, failbit set. 
Opening a nonexistent file, trying to read a line after reaching the end of the file, all these contribute to failbit. 

Badbit - I/O error or corruption of the stream. Very rare, Hardware I/O failures, OS-level read errors, Loss of connection to a network backed stream.

There is an another bit called eofbit, which is set at the end of the file. 

Generally, ifstream does not set any exception, so, for exceptions, we need to set them manually with filestream.exceptions();

Underlying difference between failbit and badbit is, the task can't be done, but the stream is fine - failbit, the stream itself is getting corrupted because of underlying errors - badbit.

But, in our usecase, when we use getline in while loop and if we enable failbit, everytime, as failbit is set, the while loop executes as long as the condition is becoming false, so, getline is executed only once after setting the failbit, and wanted to prove that the condition is becoming false. But, instead of that normal behaviour, if we set the failbit as exception, it will throw the exception and so, the process details can't be printed.

We are going to use stat structure and function from the header file #include <sys/stat.h>. Here, I've learnt that, the types such as struct, enum, union come under tags and int, char, typedef, function etc. come under identifiers. Generally, according to the compiler, there should not be two entities with ambiguous state whether the entity is tag or identifier. If its like that, then, the identifier is provided preference first, and the entity is considered as identifier. Lets consider an example.

struct Person {
    int age;
};

void Person() {
}

Generally, in cpp, we declare structure object without using struct. But, in this case, if we try declaring that, as the compiler prioritizes Person first, it will think that as a function. So, we can't create object Person p, but, we can use Person() and that is always treated as function. So, to declare object to the structure, in this case, we have to use the keyword struct, as struct Person p. This is an another feature of the concept name hiding (Generally it is used to differentiate Global and local scope same name variables). This practice is not generally preferred in modern programming practices, but, this was added to support legacy support. As, it is common in legacy C code, as there, always, structure objects are defined with struct keyword. 

Now, another question, what if we use typedef to create a user defined datatype, like the following code?

typedef struct Person {
    int age;
} Person;

void Person() {
}

In that case, it will create errors, as there is an ambuiguity here. In the before case, there is no error, so, the priority applied by the compiler, here, the priority can't be applied as there are errors. 

We have to know about major and minor numbers to find the tty device, so that, we can print it..

In linux, everything is a file, even devices like keyboard, mouse etc. are files. So, we need to know which driver manages the appropriate file (device).
Major number helps us to find the device driver that's responsible for this type of task. 
Minor number helps us to find which entity needs that driver for the task to be completed. 